# CHAPTER 12: **STAGNATION**

The forces in nature are in a state of perfect and undiscriminating impasse. There is no responsive action between things, and nothing productive can be accomplished. The natural order that nourishes and fosters all things is disjointed and disunited. The lines of comtnunication are down. Because of this there is no understanding of what is needed. and growth cannot continue. When growth stops, STAGNATION begins.

Any useful insights or ideas you may have will be met with apathy or rejection. lhe atmosphere of your environment is unreceptive even to altruistic and unselfish energies on your part. The problem is not in your motives. Whether you seek to turn a quick profit, or volunteer the whole of your resources to a worthwhile social cause, you can accomplish nothing. STAGNATION is a reservoir of arbitrary and absurd misunderstandings.

STAGNATION produces an ambiance of decay and decadence. Inferior persons and ideas can rise to positions of great influence. The political and social environment can become corrupt indeed, and there is little a person of principle can do to turn the tide of events. Leaders are not in touch with the people whom they lead, and social systems become irrelevant. The people become lost in a labyrinth of discordant purpose and are filled with mistrust. Things come to a standstill and people, therefore, cannot be helped.

Your social life may ebb due to a lack of meaningful discourse. Artistic endeavors, touted as brilliant or avant-garde, will seem to you inferior and lacking in inspiration. Or perhaps truly inspired works will be completely overlooked by your milieu. Do not doubt your inner vision or ethics. STAGNATION is a difficult time and, in reality, there is nothing you can do. If you participate in public activities you will resonate with the atmosphere and become stagnant yourself. You must, at all costs, avoid the confusion that comes when there is absolute discord in the cosmos. Withdraw.

Do not attempt to influence others, for this is not possible. Do not compromise your principles or alter your standards, for there is no end to the chaos and nothing reasonable can be resolved. You will be pulled farther and farther into multifarious disorder. Do not be tempted by promises of rewards or extravagant remunerations in return for your participation in a stagnant situation. The cost to your integrity will be too dear. Instead, you must conceal your convictions and remove yourself from any situation that will cause you conflict until the time of STAGNATION passes.

Relationships will be difficult at this time and you may, in fact, be adrift ina sea of misunderstandings and miscommunications. Hold courageously and unobtrusively to your values and inner confidence, for these times will certainly pass. This is true in matters of health as well. Self-reliance will see you through.