# CHAPTER 13: **COMMUNITY (FELLOWSHIP WITH MEN)** 

Society functions at its very best when each member finds security in his place within the social structure. When all members can be gainfully employed, yet have individual initiative, when they can excel in their own craft, and in doing so contribute to the overall goals of society, then there exists harmony and a sense of COMMUNITY. When the members have an interest in the continuity of their COMMUNITY, great deeds can be accomplished. This is because the many work for the one.

Whether you live and function in the midst of society, or whether you have created for yourself a life outside of the mainstream, you are affected by all social considerations: by the traditions of the COMMUNITY, by its economy, and by its laws. In the overall scope of evolution, the desirability of becoming self-sufficient and independent and living outside of society is as unfeasible as it is archaic. The benefits of isolation at this time are questionable. Therefore you must now evaluate your life and your goals in the light of the needs of your COMMUNITY.

It may be that you are in a position to help organize your COMMUNITY. This role requires great strength of character and the complete elimination of all selfserving motives. The time is beneficial for the attainment of social aims, yet this benefit will be lost with selfish interests and separatist endeavors. When organizing others, it is necessary to assign each member his place within the group. Without order, rank, and system the gathering would become a mere mingling and little could be accomplished. Make intelligent, thoughtful discriminations of the various talents of others. Put each person where he will most effectively function and at the same time find satisfaction in his work. Do not assume that this will just "happen." If the needs of humanity are to be met there must be a superior leader to instill social order. If you are, instead, a member of the COMMUNITY, maintain a consistent and principled attitude about your craft or job. Your own promised success at this time will serve as an example and thereby will benefit others as well as yourself.

Generally, it is a fine time for new endeavors. The forces present in this hexagram favor the creation of structures, mechanisms, and healthy disciplines necessary for the unified attainment of ambitious deeds, particularly when these deeds are aligned to and serve the needs of your fellow man.

The family is a microcosm of the COMMUNITY, and here too you should concern yourself with the direction of your personal goals. Are they consonant with the well-being of those dear to you? This is not the time to strike out as an individual.