# CHAPTER 14: **SOVEREIGNTY (POSSESSION IN GREAT MEASURE)**

Because of a stroke of good fortune you will meet with supreme success. At few times do you possess more. Seldom are you able to receive as much. Your position has become one of authority within the situation of your inquiry, yet you continue in an attitude of unassutning modesty. With such an attitude you pose no threat to those around you and they. therefore. loyally align themselves to your authority. Thus you are granted SOVEREIGNTY, This power should be controlled with moderation and modesty, leading you into a state of great progress and potential,

You are in the spotlight, exposed to the view of both those you lead and those abcm• you: Therefore proper behavior is necessary in order to continue in your accomplishments. Keep your ego in check. Never forget that things move to change at the first sign of imbalance. Your values must be realistic. Examine yourself for signs of pride, which are inappropriate to someone in a position of SOVEREIGNTY You must now fight to suppress evil in yourself and in the general situation by adhering to things that are good. Your strength comes through your alignment to the cosmic order in which good and evil find their proper places.\*

Your dealings in worldly affairs will meet with success. This might mean material wealth. Even your superiors wisely acquiesce to your SOVEREIGNTY as you continue in your progress. With an unselfish attitude and goals that place emphasis on cultural achievements, you will realize the greatest rewards.

In social matters, even the strongest members of your community will defer to you. With gentleness and goodness you will win their hearts. Through compassion — that is, identifying with others and finding the possibilities of their weaknesses within yourself — you move them to loyalty and gain their obedience. If you are an artist, your creative inspirations are now relevant to your culture, and you will meet with great success. Furthermore, your personal relationships, although lacking in passion, are well ordered. Here too you hold the position of SOVEREIGNTY and, if you are kind and unselfish, your relationships will flower.

Within the Self, SOVEREIGNTY may be a burden as well as a blessing. When experiencing material successes, you most easily fall victim to such vices as pride, greed, and immodesty. You must now make special efforts to curb any attitudes that will lead to humiliation and thus weaken your character. Instead, focus your attention upon those qualities in yourself that enhance your goodness.