# CHAPTER 15: **MODERATION (MODESTY)**

The predominant forces in the cosmog at this time are in the process of balancing extremes and harmonizing interests. This tendency toward equilibrium and MODERA TION is n natural urge in the universe. In the terrain of the earth, pinnacles are in the process of wearing down and valleys are filling up. Extreme poles magnetize and attract their opposites, thus neutralizing and moderating themselves. Nature balances itself with plagues, droughts, and cycles of overabundance, and human nature strives toward MODERATION in its tendency to reduce the excesses of the overpowerful and to augment the needs of those who are desperately wanting.

Worldly matters can now be brought to success through MODERATION. Leaders should strive to firmly carry their objectives through to completion, not with a show of extraordinary force but with the continuing sincerity that springs from their true natures. Confucius says of this idea. "When a man enters public life he does not change from what he was in private life. How unflinching is his strength\!" The self-evident, self-actualizing demonstration of purpose is the mark of great

In social relationships, avoid extremes. People who are overly intelligent or overly ignorant tend to extremes in their behavior and attitudes. You should now concentrate upon establishing a harmonious equilibrium with your fellow man and bring MODERATION and order to social institutions. This not only means avoiding radicalism and ostentatious values but also tolerating weaknesses and inferior elements. "Everything in moderation" means just that.

This is a good time to bring some equilibrium to your more personal relationships. Examine your deepest feelings and see if you are harboring any extremes in your expectations or selfish desires in your motivations. Try to moderate any unrealistic ideals.

Your inner development now requires a modest and sincere attitude. Do not indulge in extremes of any sort, and instead strive for MODERATION in all you do.\* It must be understood that acting with MODERATION means not only limiting the obvious excesses, but also exposing yourself to new areas of experience. Through MODERATION you can now gain some real control over your destiny. In this way you use the balancing tendency of the current forces to center yourself. This inner equilibrium aligns you with the tao, thus bringing you into harmony with forces that can work for you.