# CHAPTER 2: **NATURAL RESPONSE (THE RECEPTIVE)**

The yielding and responsive quality of nature is the focus of this time. Nature follows with sensitivity the demands of the seasons. It reproduces, adapts, and evolves itself appropriately; it heals itself when injured and deftly maintains a balanced economy. Nature is the responsive, yielding background for all events on earth. The power of this time lies in reacting with a NATURAL RESPONSE to the myriad things around you, a response in keeping with the laws of nature.

At this time you are dealing With realities rather than potentials. You can know only the situation around you but not the forces behind it. Therefore you should not act independently or try to lead others. If you do, you will lose the way and become confused. Because you are not connected to the forces at work in the situation, you need friends and helpers to accomplish your aims. If you can accept this you will find guidance. Once you respond naturally and allow yourself to be led, even the greatest goals can be attained.

By maintaining a pose of NATURAL RESPONSE even in the complex matters of business and politics, you can be assured that you are attuned to your own nature. At this time, such an attitude is of singular importance in your relations with worldly affairs. Through the help of friends and associates, you will be led into the best possible position. Above all, restrain the impulse to lead assertively in these situations.

You can begin to rely too much upon your own strength and forget that strength can be perilous when not directed properly. This time is a subtle study in nonaction as a way of attaining real meaning in your life. Relationships will be a test of this concept. It is important now to be particularly feeling and receptive of those dear to you. Allow them to take the initiative and assume the lead. Hold, at this time, to traditional values in the managing of interpersonal affairs and avoid aggressive attempts to get your way.

Within your Self, spend time alone in objective thought as you consider the direction of your life. Meditate upon the idea that everything on earth, good and evil, is supported by nature. Strive to broaden your attitudes and opinions and view the world with an open mind. Objectivity will keep your NATURAL RESPONSE pure while it gives you great stamina of character and inner calm in dealing with the outside world.