# CHAPTER 21: **REFORM (BITING THROUGH)** 

The time calls for energetic REFORM. Either an inferior person who is working against you or a situation that has developed at cross purposes to your life is interfering with the attainment of your aims. These obstacles must be sought out, reformed, and thereby eliminated. Success will come through the enforcement of laws and the administering of justice. There is neither possibility of compromise nor hope that the problem will miraculously vanish. It cannot be rationalized or ignored, and you cannot maneuver around it. It is a tangible, real, and self-generating interference in your life, and must be severely reformed before it causes any permanent damage to you.

In dealing with social and political affairs, a strict adherence to established justice is necessary. A society without principles or clarity about its laws is a group of people who are going nowhere. If you are a leader, then take the initiative to administer just, reasonable, and swift penalties to restore order; if you are a member, now is the time to support superior persons who can bring about social REFORM.

Personal relationships without defined guidelines, reasonable expectations, reciprocal considerations, and clear plans for the future are now in danger of dissolving in the chaos being generated by the current situation. Misunderstandings and confusions will become more common unless firm, clear headed action is taken to dispense with whatever you perceive to be an obstacle to union. There are times to avoid confrontations, to sublimate deep feelings, or to retreat and await a more opportune moment for action. This is not one of those times. Energetic REFORM will bring favorable results.

There could not be a more appropriate time to examine your character and determine the extent to which any delusions, rationalizations, or habits have usurped control of your judgment. Equivocal or vague principles, as a rule, will make of your life an undirected, uninspired, meaningless act. Know what you want, know what makes you feel good about your Self, know what brings you into harmony with others. These are your guidelines and principles. Other factors that assume control of your behavior or your health or that create inner discord are the obstacles that must be overcome. Be firm, unemotional, gentle, and clear in annihilating them and thereby re-forming your Self and your environment.

 

 

#