# CHAPTER 22: **GRACE**

There exists now a perfect moment of balanced, aesthetic form. The multiplicity of your current experiences can be glimpsed as a still and shimmering tableau. This allpervasive elegance brings pleasure to the heart, clarity to the mind, and tranquillity to the soul. You are in a state of GRACE. Contemplating your environment with the extraordinary point of view offered at this exceptional time can give you a vision of the possible perfection in the world. Yet ambitious attempts to achieve such perfection would be a mistake, for this is idealism at its worst. Use this ephemeral moment of GRACE to contemplate and refine only your immediate surroundings. Do not make any major decisions now.

Your social world will unfold with luxurious ceremony and your awareness of your position will be enhanced by traditional social events. Keep in mind that now the emphasis is on form rather than content. Do not mistake one for the other. The perfect balance of GRACE and the fabulous insights it affords you will eventually pass. Such insights are only useful in adorning the present moment. They should not be used to determine and shape your future. There are inherent perils and pitfalls in the ideals of beauty and GRACE.

In worldly matters, continue in your long-standing principles and priorities. This state of GRACE can bring a new sophistication to the affairs of business or power, and the time may be used to enhance your position. Nevertheless, if there are significant or far-reaching decisions to be made, this is not the time to make them. Use this state of GRACE only to advance areas such as public relations and public image.

The heights of idealism are developing in your personal relationships. Your appreciation of the aesthetics in love can color your perceptions of all areas in your life. There is nothing wrong in this. Understand, however, that you are now perceiving the most idealistic aspects of love, where day-to-day concerns would bring certain disillusionment. Although a little emotional GRACE is a good thing in any relationship, it is neither the basis for marriage nor divorce.

GRACE is an enriching time in inner development and self-expression. Those involved in creative or artistic endeavors will find their work very satisfying. It is an inspiring time as ideas flow and the world seems to stand still. What is produced now appears to be divinely inspired. This moment of GRACE should be relished for the pleasure and good fortune it brings, but it should not become the pivotal experience for radical change. Instead, contemplate the perfection of the moment and lose your Self in the rare tranquillity of GRACE.