# CHAPTER 3: **DIFFICULT BEGINNINGS**

The birth of every new venture begins in some confusion because we are entering the realm of the unknown. For this reason, a wrong step in the beginning can render the entire situation hopeless. Although this hexagram suggests nothing less than complete chaos, it ultimately presages a time of order and efficiency. Just as the tumultuous chaos of a thunderstorm brings a nurturing rain that allows life to flourish, so too in human affairs times of advanced organization are preceded by times of disorder. Success comes to those who can weather this storm while maintaining their principles.

DIFFICULT BEGINNINGS arise where there are a profusion of elements struggling to take form. You are facing such a situation. Because your new environment has yet to wholly materialize, much confusion surrounds any attempt to master it. Concentrate now on current problems, particularly in worldly affairs. The foundation upon which you will build all new ventures must be consolidated. In the meantime, do not attempt to break new ground. Your hands are full with myriad details that must be secured before you expand further. During DIFFICULT BEGINNINGS it is of utmost wisdom to hire able employees to assist you in your current business objectives. If you then continue to participate personally in your endeavors, you are promised supreme success.

This is a time when things are struggling to take form in the Self as well. DIFFICULT BEGINNINGS may mark an identity crisis, which could manifest as confusion, indecision, or new tastes and desires. Accept these changes in your Self without combating them. Meanwhile, look for examples of your desires so you will know where you are headed. Seek advice freely, but do not take it upon yourself to embark on new projects or untried ventures. Hold now to your own center and allow fate to manipulate external events. It will take all of the energy and powers of concentration you possess just to organize the profusion of information coming your way.

Confusion and disorder reign in personal relationships and there is little you can do about it. Remain calm during this new phase in your emotional life. Look outside the relationship for guidance. Whether professional or just friendly advice is sought, the very act of taking difficulties elsewhere will help you sort things out successfully. Remember, DIFFICULT BEGINNINGS is a phase of growth, and growing pains are in abundance. Yet, enduring this time with perseverance brings gratifying success.