# CHAPTER 36: **CENSORSHIP (DARKENING OF THE LIGHT)**

You are directly confronted by forces that threaten both your convictions and the attainment of your goals. Unfortunately, your position in this situation is not powerful. It will be necessary to submit to this time of personal CENSORSHIP and step into the background. You must conceal your feelings. Make it a point to appear externally accepting of a difficult environment. It is both useless and dangerous to expound your convictions, and by doing so, you will only invite further difficulties. However, do not lose sight of your principles for even a single moment. You know what your goals are. It is tremendously important to maintain a fierce inner awareness of them during times when they seem almost unattainable. With this attitude you can strengthen your character and thereby put yourself in a position to transcend this formidable time.

If you find it necessary, you can influence others by approaching them on a disguised level. Be very reserved. If your awareness is hidden you will not pose a threat to your adversaries. In this way you can maintain your principles, influence others in subtle ways, and stay out of trouble. The Chinese say of this hexagram: "The superior man uses his intelligence by concealing it."

It is a poor time to challenge the opinions of others in social interactions. Let things pass even though they are contrary to your beliefs or aims. You will find that those around you are not sympathetic to your vision. Hide your feelings but still maintain your inner convictions. It would be wise to react as though you were in agreement with your adversaries and yet do nothing to actively help them. Generally, keep a low profile and postpone any political aspirations.\*

This is not a good time to openly examine the points of contention in your personal relationships. Your feelings and ideas are not popular issues with those close to you. At the moment there is nothing to discuss.

However, in areas of personal and spiritual development, this situation can help you learn to accept times of evil. If one attempts to aggressively deny or ignore evil, then evil is often nurtured in one form or another. Good and evil are as much a part of the cosmos as night and day. It is much easier to develop a sound character once evil is acknowledged and accepted as a part of the world.