# CHAPTER 38: **CONTRADICTION (OPPOSITION)**

There is a strong sense of CONTRADICTION at work in the current situation. It may be a matter of opposing viewpoints — persons who are working at cross purposes to one another or an inner duality that brings indecision. You must now gain an understanding of these divergent forces and better accord yourself with the times. Great achievements are out of the question, since they cannot come about without complete co-operation and alignment. only small endeavors and gradual influences will meet with good fortune.

In spite of the CONTRADICTION presented by opposing ideologies in political matters, there is a possibility for ultimate unity. In fact, the kind of unity that develops from contrasting forces is often more significant than allegiances that occur casually and without forethought. Therefore this existing polarity may very well create the ideal conditions for unanimity. Do not become impatient or reactionary. Instead, make gradual attempts to overcome political estrangement. A little diplomacy can now go a long way toward eventual order and co-operation.

Business or social strategies may appear ineffective, as they are neutralized by equal but opposing forces. Ambitious goals must wait for a more supportive atmosphere. Your best course of action now is to affirm friendly relations. Avoid being drawn into any questionable schemes. Do not make a grab for position. Use the existing polarity to emphasize the need for more co-operative conditions or for farsighted differentiations. This will help you organize well-ordered, working systems.

The CONTRADICTION that exists in family life and personal relationships is classic in form. The divergent wills of siblings, for instance, are in a state of opposition. Naturally, in the larger cycle these blood ties will become the basis for union, but for the present they are opposed. There now exists an atmosphere for misunderstandings or estrangement between men and women. Their inherent polarity is at its peak as they retreat into their own individual natures. Bridging the gap that is now present is a profound moment in relationships. It is the eternal dance of the sexes, the prerequisite for significant union. Such contradictions only highlight the pleasant possibilities of exchange. Use small, gentle influences now to bring about this mutual accord.

This is a time when you may meet with the dualism in your own nature. You may appear indecisive or equivocal to others as you weigh contradicting viewpoints. Never before have you been able to see both sides so clearly. Arbitrary predispositions such as patriotism, clannishness, fixed ideas of principle or class prejudice may become less important in your life as you begin to see things in the larger overview. The struggle between good and evil, life and death, and all such opposites may appear to be simply the natural interaction of the great forces in the universe, as you develop the perspective of the sage. This sense of oneness or wholeness in a world of CONTRADICTION can bring you great depth of character and peace of mind.