# CHAPTER 4: **INEXPERIENCE (YOUTHFUL FOLLY)**

You are able to competently handle just about every facet of your life, except for the one facing you now. You have had enough experience in the twists and turns of your fate, and the inner workings of your nature, to dispense with most new situations that come your way, with the exception of this one. Your confusion over the difficulties and complexities of the coming event is not caused by ignorance, evil, or laziness, but rather by your complete INEXPERIENCE in dealing with such matters. Yet the time of INEXPERIENCE can bring you success because you are now forced to grow, to gain new insights, and to further develop your character.

First, know that you do not know what to do, then act accordingly. If you will not admit that there is something you must learn, you cannot be taught. And the time indicates that there is something, indeed, that you must discover. Look for an experienced teacher and seek his counsel and wisdom. Asking for help at this time is important in two ways. First, you will demonstrate to others that you are a willing and receptive pupil, thereby attracting information; and second, the process of requesting instruction will develop in you a useful predisposition toward the continued cultivation of your character. Life is a process of constant movement, change, and growth. There is no way to halt the process without ending it. This inevitable growth, without proper cultivation and guidance, can become distorted and lopsided.

Therefore, when seeking instruction, be certain that you are prepared to find, request, and use it properly. Approach a teacher who is clearly wiser in the matter causing you consternation and request advice with an open and humble attitude. If you cannot fully understand the advice you receive, or if it is not what you expected to hear, you may attribute this to your general INEXPERIENCE. If you knew the answer, you would not need to ask. You are dealing with a blind spot within your  Self. Benefit from the experience of your teacher, for it is the only resource you have. And, above all, don't argue with your adviser. If you attempt to force him to justify his entire reasoning process you may alienate your teacher at a time when you desperately need help.

If you are an adviser of others, this hexagram will demonstrate to you, as well as the seeker, the proper attitude in such exchanges. If your pupil is not serious, is argumentative, or does not listen, do not waste your energies. Attend to other more important issues in your busy world.