# CHAPTER 43: **RESOLUTION** 

The forces that may threaten you are now in a position to be eradicated. This must be done without thought of retreat, wholly in the open, and without violence. You can\_ not engage your adversaries in battle for, in acknowledging their strengths, you engage them and give them power. Instead, you must deny their power by making a firm, public RESOLUTION to grow in the direction of what is good for your welfare.

No compromise is possible. RESOLUTION must spring from your heart and must be voiced to your friends, family, and community. Let others know fülly of your intentions to overcome obstacles. This should be done calmly, cheerfully, and with authority, thus giving you a psychological advantage such as a master of gamesmanship holds over his opponent. These struggles take place without passion, emotion, or violence but with inner truth and resolve that do not know defeat. The struggle should continue until there is nothing standing in the way of your progress.

Your relationship to society at large may require you to announce the truth openly. Open truth can lead to danger, but danger, as pointed out in hexagram No. 29, can be a very good thing for all concerned. This could refer to a legal proceeding or a pronouncement of your intentions to effect change. RESOLUTION calls for peaceful, nonviolent methods. Your attitude should be friendly but uncompromising. Remember, you are dealing with truth, and therefore all else must be discredited.

In personal relationships, you may now openly make a RESOLUTION to overcome difficulties by making progress in constructive directions. This will surely strengthen the bonds between you. When dealing with children, point out the possibilities rather than focusing on negative issues.

However, when taking a stand in righteousness be certain that you harbor no internal manifestations of the difficulties you've resolved to overcome. You cannot fight corruption with corrupt motives, injustice with self-serving interests, or lies with hidden deceptions. In the process 'of making a public RESOLUTION you must openly examine all aspects of your Self. If you are filled with self-satisfaction and pride, dispense with these attitudes in order to grow further. If you are miserly in accumulations and information, distribute them to others so that more will flow through your hands. One who is too full can develop no more and can only invite collapse.