# CHAPTER 44: **TEMPTATION** (COMING TO MEET) 

A seemingly harmless yet potentially dangerous TEMPTATION has entered the picture. How could such a minor element pose a threat to an ongoing situation? How can a nonessential entity seize control and create darkness and chaos in an established environment? You need only entertain and indulge this TEMPTATIONto find out. When you give your attention to darkness, you grant it a position of power in your life. This encounter cannot be avoided, but you can prevent it from gaining in influence.

Even in a normally relaxed social environment you should now guard against the fostering of inferior ideas or persons. Make your feelings known. This may manifest most often in political affairs, for it is here that temptations pose the greatest threat. Do not give power to the people who support these ideas, regardless of the circumstances. Confront issues that seem inferior and encounter publicly persons who represent deficient ideals. Your words will have impact now.

In business matters, what you propose to do or what has been proposed to you is counterproductive. Beyond wasting your time, it could prove to be dangerous. Whether it involves a quick turnover of money or a commitment to an unproved but attractive offer, it might well create more problems than profits. Let others know how you feel in encountering this TEMPTATION and you will set a strong business policy in your example.

Do not expect much at this time from personal relationships, especially from persons with whom you are newly acquainted. Unavoidable confrontations may now bring to light inferior elements. The original text specifically points out, "It will not be good to marry," and refers to a person of questionable principles who is exploiting the situation. Consequences are not obvious now and foresight is at a low ebb. Openly express your convictions and desires in your relationships and you will drive away disruptive temptations.

The Self may be encountering a wholly new indulgence, again seemingly harmless. This internal TEMPTATION is the most difficult kind to turn away. From such indulgences you may develop a prominent and demanding character trait or a disturbing inner conflict. Exercise self-discipline and hold to routine patterns and principles. Now, more than at any other time, inferior trifles can grow into great internal influences. Casual encounters with these weaknesses should be vigorously controlled to reinforce the proper development of your character.