# CHAPTER 47: **ADVERSITY**

All physical events are natural events, subject to the laws of advancement and ADVERSITY. Human situations, too, follow the same physical laws. To imagine that which is man-made to be unnatural is a misunderstanding. Such misconceptions are what separate the individual from his tao. It is of vast importance now to maintain this connection.

ADVANCEMENT, hexagram No. 46, has progressed into ADVERSITY. This time of difficulty is a natural turn of events. It will present real problems, but they can be endured with the proper attitude. They may even lead exceptional persons into success. When faced with adversity, remain emotionally stable and optimistic. Hold your fears in check. If you indulge in insecurities, you will succumb to the overwhelming urge of the times and lose yourself in losing. The current ADVERSITY has been brought about by fate. The Chinese offer a single formula for overcoming such events: "The superior man stakes his life on following his will." Here ADVERSITY leads to inner strengthening, bringing success.

In all worldly matters, it will take extraordinary will to succeed. Your major difficulty at this time is that your words will not influence others. There is a possibility, in fact, that what you have to say will not be believed. To avoid enmity and confusion, rely instead upon actions. In social situations be sparing of words. Let your deeds speak for you. Your strength of character and determination will appear through your veil of silence. Thus the truth will become evident.

When making evaluations in business and political matters, keep in mind that this time has been compared by the Chinese to a forest tree growing in a tight space, unable to spread its branches. Only through sheer will and determination can this restraining ADVERSITY be transcended. As the tree stakes its life upon its upward reach for light, so must the superior man rely upon his will. Do not let backward trends or oppression jar your confidence and optimism. Continue in your pursuits.

Relationships may suffer from the exhausting strain of ADVERSITY. When two people are involved in an adverse and oppressing situation, both must be committed to the ongoing relationship in order to emerge successfully from the difficulty. Again, words have no weight here and often lead more to confusion than clarity.

Both your inner development and physical health can benefit from ADVERSITY if you can hold fast to your vision. Remember, if your spirit is broken, all is lost, so cast away negative or pessimistic thoughts. Since external influence is denied you, your inner development is very much the focus and major necessity of this time. The will is tempered and made strong as you struggle to overcome opposition and difficulty.