# CHAPTER 48: **THE SOURCE (THE WELL)**

This hexagram represents the deep, inexhaustible, divinely centered source of nour\_ ishment and meaning for humanity. Although people may journey from spiritual discipline to political discipline, explore various philosophies and scholarly pursuits alter their awareness in myriad ways — they must always return to THE SOURCE of their true nature for fulfillment. The original Chinese text depicts this hexagram as The Well. It states: "The town may be changed, but the well cannot be changed. It cannot be increased or decreased." THE SOURCE contains and is born of the collective truth of humanity. It receives from the individual's experience and gives to the individual's nature. Penetrating THE SOURCE of humanity can be seen as the major theme in Chinese philosophy. Confucius, China's great philosopher, said, "If you set your mind on humanity, you will be free from evil." The text of the hexagram points out that if The Well is not penetrated fully, there will be misfortune.

THE SOURCE particularly refers to and governs the social and political systems of mankind. These organizations must be centered and planned around the predispositions of human nature. Such organic ordering then rings true in the hearts and minds of the people, as their needs and prejudices are met. It requires an exceptional personality to organize others in this way. If you are such a leader, be certain that you penetrate the true feelings of your fellow man. Without this forethought and sense of humanity in a leader, good government is impossible, and misfortune results. Social disorder and evil reign because the leader is not the right man to execute the "plan." The right man can be recognized by his ability to inspire those whom he leads. He encourages them in their individual pursuits and promotes co-operation.

In social matters, try to develop your intuition about the nature of your fellow man. If you attempt to judge others without penetrating to THE SOURCE of their human instincts, your observations will be shallow and lacking in perspective. Be careful, however, not to get lost in overgeneralizations or dogmatic thinking. There are countless variations on the human theme.

In your personal relationships, try to discern the biological and sociological  promptings that bring you together rather than shortening your focus to the issue at hand. There are universal truths that bring certain individuals together. Uncovering THE SOURCE of these truths and perceiving their eternal nature will give you enlightenment, whereas a myopic viewpoint, at this time, brings misfortune.