# CHAPTER 49: **CHANGING (REVOLUTION)**

At work in the situation are in conflict, leaving the path open to change. of bringing about such a change is as difficult as it is important. People feat ch•nß because of its unknowable effect upon the future; so when a real need for (HA makes itself felt, it is a serious matter indeed. Clarity, forethought, and great devotion are now required to achieve your purpose. If correctly handled, how the results can lead to a progressive new era.

In order to avoid stagnation and degeneration in the current situation, a transforming change may be necessary. First, determine that this is actually the case. Study the mood of the times. Speak to others and weigh their reactions. Apprehend the needs of your milieu and make certain that this is not a passing mood, an Indulgent fantasy, or inspired by selfish motivations. CHANGING should not be undertaken unless it is absolutely necessary. A necessary change will bring enlightenment to people and give them a working perspective into their futures.

Second, be certain to approach CHANGING with a correct and regulated attitude. The change should be gradual, improvement by improvement, so you may gauge the effect. Avoid haste and excessive behavior. This is not a violent revolution, it is a carefully calculated transformation. Keep an eye at all times to the bearing of the cosmic forces and be certain the proposed change is consonant with the times. It will require great perseverance to carry out this vital change, and therefore its correctness will be the major factor leading both to success and your own continuing credibility.

Finally, your timing in this matter is crucial. Because the results of a CHANGING situation are not evident until the change has already occurred, it is very difficult to demonstrate the reason for change. In order to gain support from others, you must carefully time your efforts. Remove discordant elements as they appear, throw out outmoded or stifling policies when they once again create problems, and establish far-reaching clarity about the future whenever the opportunity presents itself. As the constructive aspects of your activities come to light, you will gain the trust of others. Your self-image will improve, and your influence will spread.

Your personal relationships may require CHANGING now as well. There is some possibility here of conflicting interests or perhaps aggressive attempts to control the relationship. This occurs beca-use of a need for a single, well-ordered vision. If things get completely out of hand; give thought to altering the entire nature of the relationship. You may be in the midst of a revolutionary change in your overall point of view. It will take time and effort to bring all the external elements of your life into accord with this new outlook, but success is definitely assured.