# CHAPTER 50: **COSMIC ORDER (THE CAULDRON)**

The relationship between the development of the individual and the needs of the cosmos demonstrates the meaning of COSMIC ORDER. When the two are in harmony. COSMIC ORDER exists, human potential is enhanced, and many things flourish. Such harmony can be illustrated by the beneficial relationships between a man and his superior or society and its leaders. Scholars consider this hexagram a strong indicator of harmonious accord with the cosmos.'

At this time, the decisions of leaders and politicians are wise and well regarded. In business affairs, prosperity is suggested because you satisfy the demands of your market. In general, those ideas that you currently hold most valuable are indeed worthwhile. Whatever sacrifices you must make to attain your ideals will be rewarded, and your success will confirm the worthiness of your venture, thus reinforcing your confidence. If you are an artist, your art will stimulate and inspire your audience.

Personal and familial relationships can develop into new areas of social achievement. Together you can accomplish great deeds. The powerful influence of your mutual harmony will impress your community. At the same time, you will be strengthening the bonds of your relationships.

This is a time for readjusting your individual relationship with the cosmos. There are certain areas in the life and nature of the individual that are fated, just as there are limitations in the forces of nature on earth. This is not an easy concept for Western man to accept, but an acceptance of fate can lead to great personal power. In your own life, this acceptance can bring you success in worldly matters. You will begin to perceive what is actually possible for you to achieve and not waste precious energies on the impossible, those things that are not in accord with the COSMIC ORDER given the circumstances of your life.

If you can harmonize your aims and desires to the needs and flow of the cosmos, significant deeds will become possible. Perhaps the contemplation of the dynamism behind the oriental martial arts will further demonstrate this principle: In the martial arts, you use the strength and force of your opponent's attack to overpower and defeat him. In worldly affairs you can plan your strategies for the attainment of ambitious goals by acting in harmony with the energy and bearing of the cosmos. Here the use of The Book of Change can be of great value by revealing your position in the general scheme of things.