# CHAPTER 51: **SHOCKING**

The sudden force of stored and kinetic energy in the cosmos will be released in a powerful and SHOCKING display. Like the awesome clap of a thunderbolt that explodes in the hushed moments before a storm, it will instill in the hearts of all who hear it an intense reverence and awareness of the overwhelming power of nature. All things in the cosmos will be aroused to movement through fear. This movement will be cautious, and cautious movement will bring success.

The time is like spring, when new growth is aroused by the forces of nature. In human affairs it can manifest as a SHOCKING turn of events, an unpredictable, cataclysmic occurrence inspired by invisible but irresistible forces. If your first reaction to this is fear and reverence, then good fortune will follow. A heightened experience of the forces that affect your life will bring you into close contact with the inner workings of your nature. You can examine your reactions and thereby determine how best to strengthen your character.

Once the SHOCKING event has passed, like the thunderbolt before the storm, the taut readiness of your awareness and caution will be released in joy. Surviving this terrifying force will give you confidence in your ability to deal with all that follows. If you can learn to react with virtuous accord and maintain your composure, success is truly yours. This composure and inner strength are the marks of true leaders, persons who can greatly benefit society. During times of shock you will have the opportunity to make new gains in social influence by handling yourself with tranquillity and poise.

This is a good time to examine your relationship to all of your external affairs. Carry on with whatever you are engaged in but be certain that you have most of the elements of your life under control. Affairs that are pending and unfinished business will cause difficulties during SHOCKING times. Yet if these times inspire you to make innovative changes in your life, in your relationships and in your Self, you will meet with vitality and success.