# CHAPTER 55: **ZENITH (ABUNDANCE)**

The ZENITH describes the furthest expansion of greatness as in the moment of the full moon. the longest day of the year, or the heights of personal esteem. The time is one of peak abundance. Potentials are fulfilled, true goals are realized, possiblities are exhausted. Yet the ZENITH is usually brief. The longest day of the year lasts only one day. Tomorrow marks the beginning of decline, of contraction.

You should feel a sense of satisfaction in your dealings with the outside world. When decline approaches, the superior man does not anxiously anticipate it, for he expects such cyclic changes. He is, instead, concerned with making the best of matters at hand. With such an attitude one can easily continue as a leader. Do not waste any energy on preserving the ZENITH of your greatness. Do not even think about it. Your current accomplishments, your sense of justice, your present image, all that you are now creating, will sustain you through the decline.

Success and prosperity are imminent in business matters as potentials are fulfilled and objectives reach their ZENITH. Utilize your successes as foundations for later growth. If you feel that it's necessary, the coming decrease can be held off temporarily by expanding your objectives. By involving more personnel or resources and establishing greater goals, you can push ahead the ZENITH of your potential. You will, however, reach it again, since it is a natural cycle in life.

If you are investing time socially, you should find it rather rewarding as your personal esteem is in its greatest moment. You can now allow your judgments to totally determine your actions. This strict adherence to your principles will create an image that will continue to live on once your personal powers begin to ebb. In your more intimate relationships, make spontaneous affection your major concern. If you have developed together a clear understanding of what is expected from the relationship, the details will take care of themselves. Then the inevitable ups and downs will be overshadowed by endurance of love.

Your motivations may begin to take on completely new directions just at the moment when you feel the greatest self-possession. Learning to understand this natural tendency in inner development is a true gift in understanding yourself and others. The ZENITH of inner awareness is a fascinating time for self-discovery. Move quickly, however, because it will not last long.