# CHAPTER 58: **ENCOURAGING (JOY)** 

The time has come when you can achieve your aims through the encouragement of others. Encouragement is one of the great powers over men. It can inspire them to the heights of co-operation, even to the point of transcending the fear of death itself. When ENCOURAGING others, you yourself must have in your heart a firm knowledge of the uncompromised truth, Then you may show kindness and gentleness in your ms pleasant mood brings allegiance, co-operation, and, ultimatelys success. Be cautioned, however, not to allow the situation to degenerate into uncontrolled gaiety or false optimism. The firm truth should always be at the center.

Social functions will be highlighted now. In these situations, your encouragement and kindness will win the hearts of your friends, leading the way to significant social achievements. This is not the time to be critical and opinionated. Don't be fooled by the immediate and striking effect that intimidation has over others. It wears off quickly and leaves behind only unpleasant associations. Instead, strive to create accord within your society by ENCOURAGING others in the pursuits of their individual goals.

If ever there were an audience for that charismatic and exceptional leader among men, it exists now. In business and political affairs, friendliness, kindness, and expansiveness toward others will create a spirit unparalleled in loyalty. Followers will take upon themselves all manner of hardship and sacrifice toward the attainment of worthwhile goals, and at the same time they will take extraordinary pleasure and pride in their work; thus the entire situation becomes beneficial for all concerned. It is necessary only that the leader have firmness and correctness within and an ENCOURAGING attitude toward others.

In personal relationships you have the opportunity to communicate more deeply than ever before. A strong understanding coupled with an attitude of goodwill can bring progress to your relationships. If you are involved in teaching those dear to you, an ENCOURAGING presentation of information will achieve a great deal. Remember your goals, however, and do not become frivolous or lose yourself in the joy of the moment.

Generally, the time of ENCOURAGING is best spent in discussion with others. Communications are greatly enhanced, and you now have the opportunity to enter into deep and open philosophical accord with your fellow man. You may openly examine your principles and gauge their effectiveness. Test your ideals. Explore the deepest strata of your feelings. Discuss this with others and learn what you can from them. Look for the thread of truth that extends through all things. In this way, dogma and habitual thinking fall away, and your character becomes multifaceted and refreshing.