# CHAPTER 59: **REUNITING (DISPERSION)**

All civilizations have experienced that powerful moment in time when the separatist factions among the people dissolve into the general enthusiasm and commitment to a common cause. Although rare and extraordinary, these times are deeply significant in both the development of the civilization and the well-being of the individual. American statesman Benjamin Franklin best expressed the exceptional time of REUNITING when he said, "We must all hang together or assuredly we shall all hang separately."

All cultures conduct social, political, and religious rituals. They strive for spiritual togetherness in order to break up dissension and reunite the hearts and minds of the people. Take whatever steps are necessary at this time to reunite yourself with your social milieu. It is time to break up that which divides, for isolation brings discord and blocks creative energy. You must devote yourself to a cause or task of some real significance in the world, or perhaps participate in an event that brings together the members of the community. There should definitely exist an emotional atmosphere within this mutual partaking.

Those involved in creative projects should now concern themselves with communicating. Shun elitism or egotism in your work, lest you lose the true thread of creativity. Look for the symbols, rhythms, and patterns that have inspired men for all times, and incorporate them into your work. Make a sincere attempt to meet the social responsibility of the artist: REUNITING people with their reality. This would hold true in all worldly matters. Strive, now, to offer products and services that are functional and appealing tb the widest possible audience.

This is a particularly important time in personal relationships and within the family. The family is a direct reflection of society, being the smallest social unit. A society or family that forgets where it came from cannot know where it is going. Without a periodic renewal and REUNITING among the members of the family, through the practice of family traditions, religious ritual or family recreation, the members drift ever farther from one another, losing touch with their roots. These relationships are the most important you will have in your life. Therefore, if you are estranged, make an effort to transcend the things that divide you from others. Focus on issues that may bring everyone together in mutual accord.

Within the Self, the time of REUNITING is directly connected to your spiritual development. You should now renew your inner faith, in whatever way that has meaning for you. Through Self-knowledge, reacquaint yourself with your true, heartfelt origins, and reunite your Self with your source.