# CHAPTER 60: **LIMITATIONS**

The most ancient and basic concern of mankind is that of regulating production and consumption within the dictates of nature, Therefore LIMITATIONS were created to preserve civilizations, Perhaps the first book of law was the calendar. The changing seasons create time and order in the consciousness of life, which, in turn, balances itself with the limits in its environment. These LIMITATIONS in all of nature give meaning to life and to the individual lives of men.

Thrift is especially important now. Limit expenditures and investments, whether they are made with money, energy, or emotions. In general, it is wise to avoid any excess in behavior, from blind loyalty on one hand to apathy on the other. If you are contemplating a radical reform or an indifferent retreat, you are not in harmony with the times.

The establishment of regulations or organizations that limit extravagant practices is in order. Set LIMITATIONS in business interests as well. Although these restrictions can be bothersome, it is a wise plan given the current economic atmosphere. Make certain your position is consolidated should difficulties come. In this way, you and your associates will be protected during changes in the economic climate. However, do not carry the idea of limitation too far, or you may create unhappy relations. Put limits upon your LIMITATIONS as well.

Curb extremes in personal relationships — extremes in promises, projections and passions. Accept your loved ones for themselves, and your rela •onships will strengthen. If you have gone too far in restricting others, you wil cause only rebelliousness and unpleasantness. Instead set limits upon the extent of your attachments.

Artists and those involved in self-expression now need LIMITATIONS to rise to their full creative potential. Restraints and limits are connected to personal destiny and should be explored and accepted constructively. LIMITATIONS bring morality to character development and significance to the expression of the Self. By setting guidelines and principles for yourself, you can successfully accomplish something of true meaning. Without limitation, you're overwhelmed by possibilities, moving from one thing to the next, never able to make a true commitment to anything. Make it a point now to discover your personal inclinations and LIMITATIONS, and you will discover the path to fulfillment. Be cautioned, however, not to allow your limitations to bind you, or worse, become an excuse for sedentary behavior. Use them as the natural regulations leading to health and great personal achievement.