# CHAPTER 61: **INSIGHT (INNER TRUTH)**

Ime time calls for achievements of consequence through the power of INSIGHT. To bring about INSIGHT. it is necessary to confidently rely upon the inner strength and correctness of your character while allowing the forces in your current situation to fully act upon you. In this way you establish direct contact so that you may comprehend these forces and gain advantage over them. This idea can be compared to the Chinese tnartial art T'ai Chi Ch'uan, where you yield to your opponent in order to receive his power and understand his direction. You then know where and when to direct a corresponding effort to overpower him. The object here is to co-ordinate your forces so that there is a minimum of conflict and a maximum of effect. Masters of this art often say: One uses four ounces to deflect one thousand pounds.

In yielding to the object of your inquiry, become totally open and unprejudiced toward its true nature. Go beyond objectivity into pure observation and acceptance. Here you've allowed your mind to be fully influenced by what you've observed and experienced. Now stop. Pull back into your character, your principles, your Self, taking with you a penetrating understanding and INSIGHT based upon actual experience. Think of it as embodying another's spirit, or as putting yourself in another's place. You will not lose your perspective or jeopardize your principles in this empathetic voyage. Instead you gain a valuable INSIGHT into something that may be, in fact, controlling a part of your life. This INSIGHT is a great advantage. You will know the right words to utter, the necessary yet minimal action to take, the proper attitudes to maintain in order to actually shape events.

In relationships, base your camaraderie or friendship upon higher truths than simple interactions or idle pleasures. This will create firm and lasting bonds. Generally, it is an excellent time for establishing meaningful rapport with those around you and using energies thus exchanged for achieving significant deeds. Remember that in all matters a correct and virtuous attitude is necessary to prevent a distorted INSIGHT brought about by guile and unreality. Once you've gained INSIGHT it is not necessary to take radical or violent steps to bring about harmony or justice. A few compassionate yet well-directed words can accomplish more at this time.

By developing INSIGHTyou will ultimately create in yourself a character trait of true value, which will facilitate your dealings with all aspects of your environment. It is a natural accord with the cosmos that is enhanced at this time. With INSIGHTyou may now lead others with true vision, or choose to live your life quietly and in good health, with little interference and remarkable richness of experience.