# CHAPTER 9: **RESTRAINED** (THE TAMING POWER OF THE SMALL)

It is as if your strong impulses, good intentions, and serious plans were held in check by some unknown external detail.. With some frustration, you can see all of the necessary elements in the attainment of your goals; yet nothing fits together the way it must. In every way you try, you are RESTRAINED from taking significant action. The ancient Chinese described this hexagram as "Dense clouds, no rain," a singularly unfulfilling situation. However, there is some promise of mild success through small, gentle improvements. Grand schemes are out of the question.

You may now only exercise the most brief and gentle of influences over others. The powers of the status quo are formidable and not to be tampered with. Your best plan, during these RESTRAINED times, is to stay close to the situation you wish to affect. Use the forces of friendly persuasion to maintain what influence you have and to keep the situation from running away without you. Quell any impulses to take aggressive measures.

As you may have already discovered, this is a poor time for new business ventures. Even though prospects may look promising, it will be best to wait for the signs of a sure success. In the meantime, attend to the details of the business at hand. Improve the appearance or format of your product but do not attempt to introduce a sweeping modification. In this way you will still be around when the situation is no longer RESTRAINED.

It is going to take great skillfulness to achieve a successful outcome in personal relationships. You have no control over the affair whatsoever, and arguments or ultimatums can accomplish nothing. Your choice is either to acquiesce and wait out the RESTRAINED atmosphere in a friendly manner, or to depart from the relationship altogether.

However, rather than anguishing over these conflicts, your time would be best spent in improving your image. Exercise restraint over your opinions and belief systems and put your energies into your effect upon others. Try to anticipate what facet of your personality you can display to give you the greatest advantage over your environment. This then becomes your major asset and device of persuasion during times when significant influence is unlikely. There is, nevertheless, a prospect for ultimate success if you can restrain yourself until the situation can accommodate your plan.